Ubuntu slideshow for Ubuntu ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu

Slideshow to display with the Ubiquity GTK front-end for Ubuntu
<http://launchpad.net/ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu>

-----

This project maintains slideshows which appear while installing Ubuntu
or its derivatives. The one source package provides a number of Debian
packages for Ubuntu, including ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu,
ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu-upgrade and ubiquity-slideshow-kubuntu.

This is associated with the ubiquity-slideshow group on Launchpad at
<https://launchpad.net/~ubiquity-slideshow>.

Constructive feedback on the group mailing list is always appreciated!

Please also note the "COPYING", "AUTHORS" and "TODO" files in this
directory, which all have cool stuff.


----- Testing the slideshow

The easiest way to test changes to the slideshow is to run
./test-slideshow.sh. (Note: needs zenity, which is probably already
installed). This will quickly build the slideshow with your changes and
play it. Note that the test-slideshow script does not do localization.
Testing localization is currently a more involved process.

If you are using the awesome Ground Control, there will be a Test option
and a (full) Build option when you open this project in Nautilus.
Check out <http://launchpad.net/groundcontrol> for more information.


----- Embedding a slideshow
      (For example, in an installer)

./Slideshow.py contains an example implementation. Slideshows are simple
HTML documents and can be embedded with WebKit, Mozilla or any other
browser widget that supports Javascript and CSS.

The slideshow can be given some information via its URL. Append "#" and
add attributes as key=value pairs, separated by "?". The following are
recognized:

?controls                Enables debugging controls
?locale=LANG             Sets the locale. For example, locale=en_CA.
?rtl                     Specifies whether to display text right-to-left.

The slideshow expects to be passed a locale parameter, based on the
current locale. It may fall back to English if the requested locale is not
available.

The rtl parameter should be added if that is the current text direction,
since the slideshow will not do this automatically based on the locale.

There is also an ini-style file (see ConfigParser) for each slideshow,
called slideshow.conf. This contains two important variables inside the
Slideshow section: width and height. This way, your implementation can
find the specific size for its web widget and can choose whether to
display a slideshow based on the available screen space.


----- Editing slideshow content

Each slideshow is inside the ./slideshows directory. These are created
with HTML, CSS and Javascript. They all share the link-core directory in
common. This directory has some Javascript files which should be used.
Most important is slideshow.js, which makes some assumptions about the
structure of the HTML file it is in to create a slideshow that follows the
conventions outlined previously.

To actually edit a slideshow, simply open up the appropriate directory for
the slideshow, then slides. Each slide will be its own file — for example,
ubuntu/slides/welcome.html. The file index.html will contain a list of
these slides. If a slide is added or removed, that file should be edited
as well.

Just pull open a slide in your favourite text editor and have fun.

Be sure to test out your creations! The easiest way is to open up
index.html in your web browser, then add #controls to the end of the URL
and refresh. Note that generated images (the fancy icons) will not appear
like this, but you can get a feel for how text fits in.

In the end, you can build the slideshow using the make command from the
base of this project (where this README is). The results should appear
inside the ./build directory.

You may notice some HTML comments (<!-- comment -->) in existing slides.
These curently do nothing, but in the future they will appear as notes for
translators. If you write something that may be confusing for them, please
leave a comment in the same fashion.


----- Editing slideshow design

For each slideshow, the visual design can be customized. First of all,
notice that each slideshow inside the ./slideshows directory has a file
called slideshow.conf. If you change the dimensions of the slideshow, make
sure to edit this.

Each slideshow also (usually) has a slides/link directory with a CSS file
and some graphics that can be customized.

Of course, the entire thing can be completely redone, too! For more in
depth tinkering, you can edit index.html. Just make sure the general
structure of the document is the same.

In the <head>, we need a link to directory.js and every js file in
link-core.

index.html also needs a block called container, containing another block
named slideshow, which lists all the slides as
<div><a href="slide" class="load"></a></div>

A block with id="debug-controls", and widgets with id="prev-slide" and
id="next-slide" will be handled automatically to produce the debugging
controls that appear when #?controls is added to the url.

Outside of those requirements, this should be fairly flexible. Have fun!


----- Adding / editing images

Adding images is something that individual slideshows have a lot of
freedom with; the underlying system doesn't mind how this happens. There
are a few things to note, though:

* It is nice to have the source of each image (eg: SVG file) in the
images-source directory if we are making any changes.

* If an image comes from an external source, please attribute its author
and specify its license in debian/copyright.

* If a common effect is being applied to multiple images, consider
creating an automated script and placing it under the images-source
directory. For example, with the Ubuntu slideshow we have a script called
generate-reflected-pngs.sh which, with a GIMP script, adds a fuzzy
reflection to some SVG images and exports them as PNGs.


----- Localization

A .pot file is generated for each slideshow. One .pot file contains
the strings from every slide in the slideshow.
We routinely gather the translations (in the form of .po files) and add
them to the ./po directory. The build script in ./generate-local-slides.sh
automatically generates slides for each translation using po2html.

The underlying structure is a bit convoluted, but the good news is this:
Actually making translations for this project is very conventional. You
can simply head over to the Ubuntu source package on Launchpad and submit
new strings.
<http://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu>
We will gather the results and merge them back into the project for
releases.


----- Other handy scripts

First of all, the slideshow can be built by running make. This uses the
Makefile, which in our case is a fairly straight-forward shell script.
Each slideshow gets its own rule in the Makefile which runs the
appropriate other scripts for the final output to ./build.

./Slideshow.py: Tests the slideshow (after it has been built) in a GUI
similar to Ubiquity's installation progress window.
Run ./Slideshow.py --help from a command line to see some additional
parameters it will take.
By default, opens the slideshow in ./build/ubuntu.

./test-slideshow.sh: Slightly easier way of running Slideshow.py, for
quick tests.

./generate-pot-files.sh: When slideshow content has been edited, this can
be run to produce new .pot files (for translators) reflecting that
content. There is probably no need to do this yourself, though; the people
who push those .pot files to Rosetta will do it.


----- Musing on writing style

* We can assume that the user has chosen to install Ubuntu willingly. That
person is now an Ubuntu user and doesn't need to be sold on it further.
The sales-person voice should not exist here. If you start to hear that
voice, file a bug immediately.

* Avoid the car instruction manual voice where possible. That is, try not
to tell people where specific features are, but what they can expect to
find. This is because the slideshow won't follow our users everywhere,
so we have to answer a different question: "What next?"
If we fixate on pressing buttons, the lessons will not stick :)

* Please try to keep things neat, tidy and short. In a lot of cases we can
trust our viewers to find things on their own as long as we show them
where to start, so it's possible for a single slide to do quite a bit.

